Tic Tac Chess

  Tic Tac Chess is an original game made to combine the elements of the well known games Chess and Tic Tac Toe. The game uses the Tic Tac Toe board, which is a 3 by 3 grid and the Chess pieces instead of x’s and o’s. The purpose of the game is to connect the chess pieces 3 in a row without having the opponent being able to disrupt the sequence in the next move. Each turn, a player can choose to either move a piece or add a piece to the board. When one of these actions are done, the player can not do the other on the same turn.

Adding the Piece:
	The pieces a player can add are the same pieces that are on the chessboard. This would mean that during the game you can play a maximum of 8 pawns, 2 rooks, 2 knights, 2 bishops, 1 king, and 1 queen unless you manage to win a piece (see Winning a Piece below). The rooks, knights, bishops, and queen can be placed anywhere on the 3 by 3 grid that is not already occupied by an existing piece. The pawns can only be placed on one side of the grid, while the opponent’s pawns can only be added onto the opposite side. The king can only be added to a square that the opponent can not move to on the next turn. This is because just like chess, checking and checkmating the king applies to this game as well (see Ways to Win the Game). A player can only have a maximum of 4 pieces on the board.

Moving the Piece:
  How the chess pieces can move are exactly like chess, except that they are restricted within a 3 by 3 grid board. The pawns can move forward one square if there is nothing in front, and it can only move diagonally one square by taking a piece from the opponent. The pawns can not move back. Pawn is the only piece that moving is different than taking a piece. For all the other pieces, moving and taking pieces from the opponent are the same. For rooks, they can move horizontally or vertically. Knights move in the shape of an L meaning that they can go 2 spaces horizontally or vertically and 1 space perpendicular to that. Bishops can move any way they want diagonally. The queen is a combination of the rook and bishop because it can move any way vertically, horizontally, or diagonally. The king can move like the queen except that they can only move one square at a time. But the king can not move to a square where it would be under check.
Knights are the only pieces that can hop over other pieces. Otherwise, if there is a piece in the way, whether it is yours or the opponents, the moving piece can not go any further. You can only take the opponent’s pieces, and you are not allowed to kill your own piece.

Winning a Piece:
	Just like chess, when the pawns get to the opposite side of the board, they can turn into a rook, knight, bishop, or queen without having to reduce the piece count. Keep in mind that the tic tac toe board is a lot smaller than a chess board so it would be easier for the pawn to get to the other side, especially when there are only a few pieces left available to play.

Ways to Win the Game:
	There are two ways to win this game. Just like tic-tac-toe, a player has to make three in a row horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. But the challenge is that in order to win, they must make the three so that the opponent can not take any pieces from those three by the next move. And if the opponent has a three in a row, you can not do any other move than to take a piece from the three. If you are unable to take one of those three, then you automatically lose.
	Another way to win the game is the same way you do in chess: to checkmate the opponent’s KING! That means that you are attacking the king, and the king has no where to go so that you may not take it the next turn. If the king is under attacked, it is called a check, and if that king can escape from being checked next turn, then the game is not won.
